Welcome back.
In this video I'm just going to walk through some of the common types of assertions we get with unit
test Virdi seen assert equal but there's also assert not equal.
So sometimes you want to make sure you know that a value is not returned any value is OK except for
this one.
So you can use assert not equal.
You also have assert true and assert false.
If you wanted to take a look let's define a new function and just have it be empty.
Let's call it what we call it.
Let's go with.
Def is funny and then it takes in a person a person's name and let's just have it pass.
All right.
So we can go over to our test file and just define a test def test.
Let's go with is funny and we'll pass in Tim for example and let's say Tim is not supposed to be funny.
So I told you self-taught assert and I could do self-taught assert equal and then I would call.
I need to import it first is funny and I could use self-audit assert equal is funny.
When I pass in Tim like this should be false or I can do self assert false is funny.
Tim I like that.
So this is checking that these two things are equal.
This is checking.
This is false which is the same thing.
So I'll come at the top one out was just two self-edit assert false is funny.
The other thing I didn't show in the last video you can include an optional message here like Tim should
not be funny.
OK.
And let's fast forward and add another test.
I added in test is funny.
Anyone else and I put 3 assertions in here and that's OK because they're all kind of testing the same
thing.
I want to test that when I call is funny with blue or Tamie or spin.
All of them should be true.
So I used to assert true rather than assert false.
So it's not that you can't have more than one assertion in any test function.
It's just that you want to make sure they are testing similar things.
And these are different.
Right I'm singling Tim out.
Sorry Tim.
So you get your own test function.
If I run it now we get one failure only.
And actually the reason that's happening this is important is that instead of getting two failures you
can see that none is not true.
So the blue line is failing here but this actually worked because assert false is actually a cert falsie.
So it's going to check if what was returned.
Nothing right now.
So it's none.
So at the end of the day it's doing is none falsie And that's true.
So actually it might have been better to code this one to double check that Tim is absolutely false.
None is different.
So if I try it now we get two failures.
OK.
Now let's go implement our code to appear.
Well just to let's say if person equals Tim is Tim return False else he'll just return true.
And we don't need an else.
Now if we run our tests as we go everything is working.
One thing I didn't point out when Blue was failing here.
You see we get this message none not true blue should be funny.
So that was what I had added after.
Where's that.
Here we go.
So we put out a message up here with our docstring something like I'm missing a quote area.
You know anyone else but tim should be funny.
And that's like the goal for this entire test function this is for each individual assertion.
So we can see where it's failing.
So if I uncomment this return true we can see exactly what we get.
So it tells us anyone else but tim should be funny.
So that's the test function where things went wrong and the assertion itself was blue.
Should be funny.
OK.
Uncomment that other types of assertions there is a Surt is none and assert is not None.
So if you want to make sure the value you get back is not None.
I've used that one quite quite often.
There's also a search in and assert not in so that we could use that to test if a value is in a range
of values or in a list of values.
And there's also more you can look in the documentation to see those but these are some of the more
commonly used ones.
Let's say I have a function called laugh and life just returns a laughing noise like haha.
Well Tee hee hee.
OK.
So I could write tests for that.
But the problem is you going to randomly pick something in return it to me and testing for randomness
is hard.
But in our case there's only a couple of options.
So we could write def test laugh and we'll just write a self-taught assert in and we'll just call laugh
which I'll need to import up top and the value in math should be in a tuple of ELO well.
Ha ha.
And tee with Tee hee hee hee.
OK.
So this is just going to check if the result a laugh is in this tuple rather than checking if it's exactly
EHLO well or exactly haha.
So every time I run the tests we might get something different from my so we could use this instead
and I'll need to import laugh appear and if I run it right now we get a failure none not found in that
values are not found in that tuple of values.
OK.
So then we just go over here and don't need to import random.
So let's do from random import choice and then we'll just return choice of that tuple and it works OK.
So that's just showing you another assertion.
I'm not going to go through all of them.
They're pretty self-explanatory.
One thing I will single out however is testing for errors so we can use self-doubt.
Assert raises to make sure that we get an error in a certain situation and not only that but we can
also guarantee the type of that error.
So here's an example.
Self-taught assert raises and then we pass an index error and then a slightly different syntax colon.
And then the code that we want that should generate an index error.
In this case l equals the list 123 accessing L bracket 100.
Should give us an index error.
So back to our tests.
Let's say that I want to write a test to make sure that our eat function when you pass in is healthy
if it's healthy is not a boolean.
Then we want a value error to be raised.
So we can to find another test so def test eat and let's go with Eat healthy Bhuiyan we just at our
with statements so with self that assert raises and the type of assertion or the type of exception we
want is a value error.
Ok so it should raise that.
And when should that happen if we ran eat with it doesn't matter.
The first argument.
Pizza.
But then I said is healthy to a string like.
Who cares.
This should give us a value error.
So that's how we write that test.
And let's just add a little documentation appear that just says that C is healthy.
Must be a boolean.
Let's just go with Boole right now.
If I run it we get a failure value error was not raised.
So it tells us I was expecting that and it didn't happen.
So let's now implement that over here and eat.
We're just going to add a check if it's healthy it's not an instance of Boullion then we'll raise value
ever.
So down here let's just do that at the very beginning actually.
So if is healthy and how do we check if it's an instance we do is instance is healthy come a Boole but
we want to check if it's not.
So if this is false if that's the case we will raise a value error and let's have a message that just
says is healthy must be a boolean.
Now if we run our tests it passes and you can see all of these messages I'm using for both.
We take them off.
Everything passes.
It's pretty cool.
So that is unit tests in a nutshell.
Next I'm going to show you some nice features that you can test comes with that allows us to add code
before and after our tests so we can reduce duplication.
This is the base recipe for testing with the unit test to find your class and must inherit from unit
test that test case at the end.
You call you know test I main and then here you to find your test functions.
Each test case has at least one assertion inside of it and there's a bunch of these assert helpers.
All righty.